---
layout: post
title:      "Continuing What I Started"
date:       2017-10-05 23:52:09 +0000
permalink:  continuing_what_i_started
---


In 2010, I got tired of hearing myself continuously tell my three children, that a college education was a goal they shouldn't put off, because it would be the key to their future.  Well, as it would be, I guess my youngest, my daughter, had had enough of hearing good old dad prattle on about 'higher ed', too.  At the age of ten, she asked me the one question I never thought any of them would ask, and the one that I really didn't have a good response for either.
"Dad, why didn't you ever get a college degree?"
I'd attended community college in an on-and-off manner since the age of 21, but I really couldn't answer why I had never taken it seriously enough to complete my degree.  At some points, I'd even applied for transfer to state colleges and private universities.  In 1993, I was accepted to USC, to complete a degree in History, but I couldn't get the financial aid package to make it fiscally realistic, so that went nowhere.  In 1994, I was accepted to UC Santa Cruz, to complete a degree in Economics, but I was married and my then wife felt the promotion I was being offered at work was a better opportunity, than using up all my free time to complete a college degree, with no guarantee it would 'pay off' in the end.  Yes, I went with her suggestion.
So, after all that hemming and hawing and trying and not succeeding, in 2010, my daughter's question left me with one thought--why the heck HAVEN'T I completed my undergraduate degree?  At that point, I knew it was a commitment and, being single, I had no one to hold me back or dissuade me any further.  I went back to San Jose City College and worked with the counselors to craft my plan to transfer to San Jose State.  I knew I had the GI Bill, from my 2004 army deployment to Iraq, so money and supporting myself were no longer an issue.  With that 'no excuses' mentality seared into my mind, I chose Business Adminstration as my major and set about to knock out all the required courses.
In 2012, I officially transferred over to San Jose State and began the completion of a BS in Management Information Systems.  The coursework was not easy, but I could tell that it was less about learning the ins and outs of data management, programming, or other more technical aspects of the tech world, and more about management of assets and people in that realm.  I completed my degree, but knew I was definitely not ready to go conquer Silicon Valley.  
My first job was an eye opener.  I started as an entry-level Salesforce Admin and realized, after 3 months, that I was in way over my head.  My boss was a very kind and patient man, but I could tell he realized that I was not as well-versed in Java, and especially not in Apex, which is Salesforce coding language.  He was nice enough to let me casually slide over to the Helpdesk team and I stayed there for nearly 3 years.
Today, I'm working in tech support for a digital x-ray manufacturer, but want so much more.  I've looked around and know that software engineering or development is where I want to work.  Scanning the job market, I have found that Java, JavaScript, Python, Ruby, web programming, and database management are the skills I need to move forward.  And that is why I am here.
I will complete this course.  I will do well.  And, I will become a software engineer.
